Document roziscoding/grammy-autoquote (#441)
grammyjs/website: site/docs/plugins/autoquote.md

# Always Replying to Messages

> Sometimes, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups, it is necessary to always send messages as a reply (or quote) to the message that started the interaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is sometimes necessary to always send messages as replies, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups.
```

> We usually do this by adding the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to the methods that send the message: `sendText`, `reply`, sendPhoto, replyWithPhoto and etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We usually do this by adding the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to the methods that send the message: `sendText`, `reply`, `sendPhoto`, `replyWithPhoto` and etc.
```

> Usually, the way to do that is to mannualy add `reply_to_message_id` to the params of the method that sends the message (`sendText` / `reply`, `sendPhoto` / `replyWithPhoto`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We usually do this by adding the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to the methods that send the message: `sendText`, `reply`, sendPhoto, replyWithPhoto and etc.
```

> However, if you're doing this for every message, it can get a bit messy and tiring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, if you're doing this for every single message, it can get messy and boring.
```

> This plugin sets the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to `ctx.msg.message_id` for `reply` and all `send*` methods that support it to make every message a reply to the message that triggered it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This plugin sets the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to `ctx.msg.message_id` for all `reply*` and `send*` methods that support it to make every message a reply to the message that triggered it.
```

> This plugin sets the value of `reply_to_message_id` param to `ctx.msg.message_id` for every `send` method (except for `sendChatAction`, which does not support this parameter), thus making every message a reply to the message that triggered that update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin sets the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to `ctx.msg.message_id` for `reply` and all `send*` methods that support it to make every message a reply to the message that triggered it.
```

## Usage

> ### For a Single Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In a Single Route
```

> Use this if you want all messages sent from within a specific context (like a specific command) to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want all messages sent within a specific context (like a specific command), you can apply it to them specifically: 
```

<CodeGroup>
  <CodeGroupItem title="TypeScript" active>

>     ```ts
>     import { Bot } from "grammy";
>     import { addReplyParam } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```ts
import { Bot } from "grammy";
import { addReplyParam } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.start();
```
```

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

</CodeGroupItem>
  <CodeGroupItem title="JavaScript">

>     ```ts
>     const { Bot } = require("grammy");
>     const { addReplyParam } = require("@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote");
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```js
const { Bot } = require("grammy");
const { addReplyParam } = require("@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote");

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.start();
```
````

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

</CodeGroupItem>
  <CodeGroupItem title="Deno">

>     ```ts
>     import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
>     import { addReplyParam } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts";
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
import { addReplyParam } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts";

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.start();
```
````

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

> ### Usage for Every Route

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In for All Routes
```

> Use this if you want absolutelly every possible message sent from your bot to quote the triggering message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want every single message that is sent reply the messages that triggered them, you can apply the plugin this way:
```

<CodeGroup>
  <CodeGroupItem title="TypeScript" active>

    ```ts
    import { Bot } from "grammy";
    import { autoQuote } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";

    const bot = new Bot("");

    bot.use(autoQuote);

    bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

>     ```ts
>     import { Bot } from "grammy";
>     import { autoQuote } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.use(autoQuote);
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```ts
import { Bot } from "grammy";
import { autoQuote } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.use(autoQuote);

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
});

bot.start();
```
````

>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // Also quotes the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
```

</CodeGroupItem>
  <CodeGroupItem title="JavaScript">

    ```ts
    const { Bot } = require("grammy");
    const { autoQuote } = require("@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote");

    const bot = new Bot("");

    bot.use(autoQuote);

    bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

>     ```ts
>     const { Bot } = require("grammy");
>     const { autoQuote } = require("@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote");
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.use(autoQuote);
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```js
const { Bot } = require("grammy");
const { autoQuote } = require("@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote");

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.use(autoQuote);

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
});

bot.start();
```
````

>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // Also quotes the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
```

</CodeGroupItem>
  <CodeGroupItem title="Deno">

    ```ts
    import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
    import { autoQuote } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts";

    const bot = new Bot("");

    bot.use(autoQuote);

    bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {

>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
```

});

bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
});

bot.start();
```

</CodeGroupItem>
</CodeGroup>

## Plugin Summary

- Name: Autoquote
- Source: <https://github.com/roziscoding/grammy-autoquote>

> - Reference: <https://doc.deno.land/https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- API Reference: <https://doc.deno.land/https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts>
```

>     ```ts
>     import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
>     import { autoQuote } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts";
> 
>     const bot = new Bot("");
> 
>     bot.use(autoQuote);
> 
>     bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
>     });
> 
>     bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
>     });
> 
>     bot.start();
>     ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
```ts
import { Bot } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy/mod.ts";
import { autoQuote } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts";

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.use(autoQuote);

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // this is going to quote the user's message
});

bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {
  await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
});

bot.start();
```
````

>       await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // Also quotes the user's message

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // this quotes the user's message, too
```

# Always replying to messages

> Sometimes, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups, it is necessary to always send messages as a reply (or quote) to the message that started the interaction. Usually, the way to do that is to mannualy add `reply_to_message_id` to the params of the mathod that sends the message (`sendText` / `reply`, `sendPhoto` / `replyWithPhoto`). However, if you're doing this for every message, it can get a bit messy and tiring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups, it is necessary to always send messages as a reply (or quote) to the message that started the interaction.
Usually, the way to do that is to mannualy add `reply_to_message_id` to the params of the mathod that sends the message (`sendText` / `reply`, `sendPhoto` / `replyWithPhoto`).
However, if you're doing this for every message, it can get a bit messy and tiring.
```

> # Always replying to messages

Reviewer: Forcing users to reply (`autoquote`)

Author: It's the bot that it forced to reply, though. The next sent messages are going to quote the message that triggered the update

Reviewer: brb. will look into it tomorrow.

Reviewer 2: Always Replying to Messages

Author: ```suggestion
# Always Replying to Messages
```

Sometimes, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups, it is necessary to always send messages as a reply (or quote) to the message that started the interaction.

> Usually, the way to do that is to mannualy add `reply_to_message_id` to the params of the mathod that sends the message (`sendText` / `reply`, `sendPhoto` / `replyWithPhoto`).

Reviewer 2: Typo `mathod`

Author: ```suggestion
Usually, the way to do that is to mannualy add `reply_to_message_id` to the params of the method that sends the message (`sendText` / `reply`, `sendPhoto` / `replyWithPhoto`).
```

However, if you're doing this for every message, it can get a bit messy and tiring.

This plugin sets the value of `reply_to_message_id` param to `ctx.msg.message_id` for every `send` method (except for `sendChatAction`, which does not support this parameter), thus making every message a reply to the message that triggered that update.

## Usage

> ### For a single route

Reviewer 2: For a Single Route

Author: ```suggestion
### For a Single Route
```

Use this if you want all messages sent from within a specific context (like a specific command) to

```ts
import { Bot } from "grammy";
import { addReplyParam } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";

> // import { addReplyParam } from 'https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts'

Reviewer 2: Change single quote to double quote (https://github.com/grammyjs/website/pull/389)

Author: ```suggestion
// import { addReplyParam } from "https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts"
```

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {
  ctx.api.config.use(addReplyParam(ctx));

>   ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message
```

});

bot.start();
```

> ### Usage for every route

Reviewer 2: Oops.. I missed this one. Title case :)

Author: ```suggestion
### Usage for Every Route
```
Isn't it possible to do this vis css tho?

Use this if you want absolutelly every possible message sent from your bot to quote the triggering message.

```ts
import { Bot } from "grammy";
import { autoQuote } from "@roziscoding/grammy-autoquote";
// import { autoQuote } from 'https://deno.land/x/grammy_autoquote/mod.ts'

const bot = new Bot("");

bot.use(autoQuote);

bot.command("demo", async (ctx) => {

>   ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  await ctx.reply("Demo command!"); // This will quote the user's message
```

});

bot.command("hello", async (ctx) => {

>   ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // Also quotes the user's message

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  await ctx.reply("Hi there :)"); // Also quotes the user's message
```

# Always Replying to Messages

It is sometimes necessary to always send messages as replies, especially for bots that are meant to be used in groups.
We usually do this by adding the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to the methods that send the message: `sendText`, `reply`, sendPhoto, replyWithPhoto and etc.
However, if you're doing this for every single message, it can get messy and boring.

This plugin sets the `reply_to_message_id` parameter to `ctx.msg.message_id` for `reply` and all `send*` methods that support it to make every message a reply to the message that triggered it.

## Usage

> ### In a Specific Routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In Specific Routes
```
